content/digest/kotzur-2018.md, before:

---
author: Stefan Strömer
title: "On seasonal storages (Kotzur et al., 2018)"
date: "2024-12-15T01:26:18+01:00"
description: "Time series aggregation for energy system design: Modeling seasonal storage."
topics: [storage, timeseries, aggregation, temporal, optimization, esom]
aliases: []

showToc: true
tocOpen: false
---

The paper by Kotzur, Markewitz, Robinius, and Stolten is amongst the most refered to ones regarding the simplification of <abbr title="Energy System Optimization Models">ESOMs</abbr>, by reducing their temporal resolution.

<!--more-->

Multiple open-source <abbr title="Energy System Optimization Models">ESOMs</abbr> build upon their work[^1].

> Check out [_"the art of temporal gymnastics"_](../math/temporal-gymnastics.md) if you are looking for further thoughts around similar approaches.

[^1]: Kotzur, L., Markewitz, P., Robinius, M., & Stolten, D. (2018). Time series aggregation for energy system design: Modeling seasonal storage. _Applied Energy, 213_, 123-135. [doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2018.01.023](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2018.01.023)

Commit message:

digest: add links to kotzur-2018

content/digest/kotzur-2018.md, after:

---
author: Stefan Strömer
title: "On seasonal storages (Kotzur et al., 2018)"
date: "2024-12-15T01:26:18+01:00"
description: "Time series aggregation for energy system design: Modeling seasonal storage."
topics: [storage, timeseries, aggregation, temporal, optimization, esom]
aliases: []

showToc: true
tocOpen: false
---

The paper by Kotzur, Markewitz, Robinius, and Stolten is amongst the most refered to ones regarding the simplification of <abbr title="Energy System Optimization Models">ESOMs</abbr>, by reducing their temporal resolution. Existing open-source <abbr title="Energy System Optimization Models">ESOMs</abbr>, like [Calliope](https://www.callio.pe/) or [PyPSA](https://github.com/PyPSA/pypsa), build upon their proposed formulations[^1].

> Refer to [_"the art of temporal gymnastics"_](../math/temporal-gymnastics.md), which contains further thoughts (and links) related to similar approaches.

[^1]: Kotzur, L., Markewitz, P., Robinius, M., & Stolten, D. (2018). Time series aggregation for energy system design: Modeling seasonal storage. _Applied Energy, 213_, 123-135. [doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2018.01.023](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2018.01.023)
